**Manufacturing Cost Analysis of Catalyst Coated Membrane (CCM) of a Zero-Gap Alkaline Water Electrolysis Cell**

This is a publicly-accesible repository for the Python script used to perform the bottom-up cost analysis of an CCM for an AEM Electrolysis Cell.

**Executive Summary**

As green hydrogen gains popularity as a fuel, it is essential to reduce the cost of production, storage, transportation, and utilization. In this study, we focus on hydrogen production from water electrolysis. Global electrolyzer manufacturing capacity in 2020 was above 2 GW per annum, and it is forecast to exceed 4.5 GW based on current expansion commitment [12]. Therefore, large-scale electrolyzer stack manufacturing would be crucial to achieving such high numbers. Several works of literature attempt to estimate the CAPEX of electrolyzers, but with a significant variance [27]. Hence, executing and publishing more transparent bottom-up cost analyses is crucial to estimate the CAPEX accurately. We aim to present the methodology and perform the cost analysis and the cost of manufacturing Catalyst Coated Membrane (CCM) for zero-gap alkaline electrolyzers. 

Mayyas et al. [21] systematically present the method for the direct manufacturing cost of the CCM. The methodology has been adapted for this work, with the material and cost data relevant to an alkaline CCM. Due to the technology still being in the research phase, with no standard specifications, we use the exact functional specifications for the electrolysis cell presented in [21]. As the fabrication method is similar, and the membrane dimensions are unchanged, we use the cost of the spray coating machine and other vital parameters from [21]. Material costs were estimated from price quotes available online [31, 32, 33, 34, 35]. Other cost components were calculated based on official data and published information, which can be found in the Section 3 of the report.

The results show that the cost of the alkaline CCM is lower when compared to PEM CCM. The stack plots (Figure 7 and 6) show how various cost components respond to the increase in production size. Table 8 shows the cost components and the total cost for 10, 35, and 1000 units of a 1 MW electrolyzer stack. The cost of the CCM is then compared to the cost of PEM CCM and alkaline separator in Table 9. The total stack cost needs to be analyzed to compare the CAPEX of zero-gap alkaline electrolyzer to PEM and the conventional alkaline electrolyzer.

Acquiring industry partners and using price quotations based on the order size would significantly improve the accuracy and confidence level of the calculated final cost of the CCM. Several assumptions were made to reach the final cost figure of the alkaline CCM, due to unavailability of data. Future research is required to perform the bottom-up cost analysis on all the stack components (Bipolar plates/current collectors, electrodes, casing, assembly) to estimate the cost of a 1 MW stack and help improve the business case for the technology.
